Skip to content
Python
PSF
Docs
PyPI
Jobs
Community
Python Software Foundation
 Search This Site 
Search
  GO
Socialize
Google+
Facebook
Twitter
Chat on IRC
Sign In
Sign Up / Register
Sign In
About
Executive Summary
Mission statement
Public records
PSF Workgroups
Python is a programming language that lets you work more quickly and integrate your systems more effectively.
You can learn to use Python and see almost immediate gains in productivity and lower maintenance costs. Learn more about Python..
 
Membership
Sponsor Membership
Membership FAQ
Membership roster
League
Sign up as member
Self-certify as voting member
Python Community Code of Conduct
 
Donations & Grants
Donations
Volunteer
Contribution forms
Grants program
Suspicious checks
Outreach & Education
Sprints Funding
 
Legal
Bylaws
Trademark policy
Weblog policy
License
 
Media
Press releases
Awards
Logo
 
PSF Blog
PSF>>>  Membership
PSF Membership FAQ

The mission of the Python Software Foundation is to promote, protect, and advance the Python programming language, and to support and facilitate the growth of the international community of Python programmers.

—from the Mission Statement page

What does it mean to be a member of the PSF?
What does the PSF do?
What membership classes are there?
Who is allowed to vote?
How does a person become a PSF Fellow?
How can I ask other questions?
What does it mean to be a member of the PSF?
Being part of the PSF means being part of the Python community. In 2014, we changed the bylaws to make the PSF an open membership organization, so that everyone who uses and supports Python can join.

For those who wish to do more, we have classes of membership for those who contribute time, work, and money to the foundation.

What does the PSF do?
The majority of the PSF's work is focused on empowering and supporting people within the Python community. The PSF has active grant programs that support sprints, conferences, meetups, user groups, and Python development efforts all over the world. In addition, the PSF underwrites and runs PyCon US, the primary Python community conference.

The PSF serves as a primary point of contact for organizations seeking to work with Python, to support Python, or to sponsor Python development. The PSF provides a structure by which work, donations and sponsorships can be coordinated worldwide.

The PSF also holds and protects the intellectual property associated with Python and the Python community - like the word "Python," the two-snakes logo, and the terms "PyLadies" and "PyCon." We make sure that these terms are used appropriately and only for the benefit of the Python community.

What membership classes are there?
There are six classes of members: Basic Members, Supporting Members, Sponsor Members, Managing Members, Contributing Members and Fellows.

Basic members
Basic members are individuals or entities who are part of the Python language community and who have decided to declare their support for Python and agree to the community Code of Conduct. You can sign up as a basic member right here on the site.

Supporting members
Supporting members make an annual donation to the PSF to sustain the Foundation and support the Python community. For the time being, you can sign up as a supporting member through the Associate Member program (this is an older membership program that is in the progress of being migrated to the new membership structure).

Sponsor members
Sponsor members are organizations that support the PSF through a yearly fee, substantial in-kind donations, and dedicated work on behalf of the PSF and the community. Sponsor members may provide people to be delegates that participate in the work of the PSF. Sponsor membership details can be found here.

Managing members
Managing members are people who dedicate at least five hours per month working to support the Python ecosystem in one or the PSF's working groups - by helping organize, manage, run infrastructure, etc. For details on signing up as a managing member, refer to this post on the PSF blog.

Contributing members
Contributing members are people who dedicate at least five hours per month working on projects that advance the mission of the PSF, where the work relates to the creation or maintenance of open source software available to the public at no charge. For details on signing up as a contributing member, refer to this post on the PSF blog.

Fellows
Fellows are members who have been nominated for their extraordinary efforts and impact upon Python, the community, and the broader Python ecosystem. Fellows are nominated from the broader community and elevated by a vote of the members.

Who is allowed to vote?
To vote you must be 1) eligible to vote, and then 2) elect to exercise voting privileges.

Who is eligible: Supporting members, sponsor delegates, managing members, contributing members, and fellows are eligible for voting privileges.

Exercising voting privileges: Each person that is eligible for voting privileges must then elect each year whether or not to exercise the right to vote. Voting is a use-it-or-lose-it privilege; missing four votes within a calendar year removes voting privileges for the rest of the year.

How does a person become a PSF Fellow?
The criteria for becoming a PSF Fellow are as follows:

For those who have served the Python community by creating and/or maintaining various creative contributions, the following statement should be true:

"[Nominated Person] has served the Python community by making available code, tests, documentation, or design, either in a Python implementation or in a Python ecosystem project, that 1) shows technical excellence, 2) is an example of software engineering principles and best practices, and 3) has achieved widespread usage or acclaim."

For those who have served the Python community by coordinating, organizing, teaching, writing, and evangelizing, the following statement should be true:

"[Nominated Person] has served the Python community through extraordinary efforts in organizing Python events, publicly promoting Python, and teaching and coordinating others. [Nominated Person]'s efforts have shown leadership and resulted in long-lasting and substantial gains in the number and quality of Python users, and have been widely recognized as being above and beyond normal volunteering."

In all that this person does, [Nominated Person] is an example of what we aspire to be in the Python community.

How can I ask other questions?
Please send questions to psf@python.org.

The PSF
The Python Software Foundation is the organization behind Python. Become a member of the PSF and help advance the software and our mission.
Tweets by @ThePSF
About
Applications
Quotes
Getting Started
Help
Python Brochure
Downloads
All releases
Source code
Windows
Mac OS X
Other Platforms
License
Alternative Implementations
Documentation
Docs
Audio/Visual Talks
Beginner's Guide
Developer's Guide
FAQ
Non-English Docs
PEP Index
Python Books
Community
Diversity
IRC
Mailing Lists
Python Conferences
Special Interest Groups
Python Wiki
Python Logo
Merchandise
Community Awards
Success Stories
Arts
Business
Education
Engineering
Government
Scientific
Software Development
News
Python News
Community News
PSF News
PyCon News
Events
Python Events
User Group Events
Python Events Archive
User Group Events Archive
Submit an Event
Contributing
Developer's Guide
Issue Tracker
python-dev list
Core Mentorship
Help & General Contact
 
Diversity Initiatives
 
Submit Website Bug
 
Status 
Copyright ©2001-2016.  Python Software Foundation  Legal Statements  Privacy Policy